Gaston Sanchez is a data scientist consulting for research labs, scholars, and NGO's. He's also a world expert on Partial Least Squares (PLS) methods, and founder of plsmodeling.com. In 2009 he received his PhD in Statistics from the Universitat Politecnica de Catalunya (UPC) under the supervision of Dr. Tomas Aluja. Previous to that he was a research assistant in 2007 at the IESE Business School with Adrian Done. Gaston has held two postdoctoral positions: from June 2011 to February 2013 at UC Berkeley in the Nielsen Group (Rasmus Nielsen) - Center for Theoretical Evolutionary Genomics (CTEG), and from April 2013 to April 2014 with the Unit of Sensometrics and Chemometrics at Oniris-Nantes. Between 2011 and 2012 he collaborated with the Biology Scholars Program (BSP) UC Berkeley, and with the Program on Reproductive Health and the Environment (PRHE), UC San Francisco. He has been an Insight Data Science Fellow (summer 2014). Currently he is an adjunct professor at Berkeley City College. He contributes to the platform of R packages. Occasionally he blogs about data analysis, visualization, and related topics in his blog "Data Analysis Visually EnfoRced". In a parallel life, Gaston has been a leading instructor at the Mexican Alpine Club, teaching outdoor skills, introduction to rock climbing, as well as rope techniques levels I and II. If there's something he loves more than data analysis, is his passion for long-distance swimming and the spectacular ice-creams of his beloved Tepotzotlan, Mexico.
